## Bucketing time

- Our goal is
  - to compute the average processing time
  - for each hourly bucket.

#### Sources of data
- local: csv, pdf, xls
- web: json, xml, html
  - most web servers use RESTful web services.

- database servers:
  - relational: mysql, postgres,
  - nan relational or NoSQL: mongoDB

#### RESTful web services
- REST stands for Representational State Transfer, and the idea is that you have a standard mechanism for getting data from a web page.
- RESTful
  - A web service that conforms to the REST standards.
- URLs
  - RESTful web services deliver resources to the client.
  - Each resources (html, json, image, etc.) is associated with a URL and an HTTP method.

### Get data

- create and send HTTP requests
- receive and process HTTP responses
- convert data residing in JSON/XML/HTML format into python objects

- xml, extensible markup language
  - Tree structure
  - Tagged elements (nested)
  - Attributes
  - Text (leaves of the tree)

#### from the web
- The basics of web pages: HTML & CSS
- Sending, receiving and proessing HTTP requests
- Parsing the HTML returned by the HTTP request and extracting information from it

#### Web scraping
- Automating the process of extracting information from web pages
  - for data collection and analysis
  - for incorporating in a web app

- Legal and ethical issues
  - It's not something that is generated by their website, it's not intellectual content of that website.
  - So factual non-proprietary data is generally OK.
  - You should always check, make sure that there's no damage to the scraping.

- Let's say you go to a stock-trading website and you collect certain technical indicator values from there.


- three goals of web scraping are
  - to be able to send HTTP requests and responses,
  - to be able to get the HTML requests back,
  - to extract the information from it.
- Basic libraries
  - requests,
  - beautiful soup,
    - a HTML, an XML parser.
    - use 'tags'
    - create a parse tree
    - handle incomplete tagging
    - tags are organized in hierarchical dictionaries

  - selenium, test a server.
    - write a program that keeps hitting the server with requests.
    - it emulates a browser.
    - It pretends it's a browser and it can get the data back.
    - It's also useful sometimes when a web server detects that you're coming from a program and blocks you.

#### Log into a web server
- logging in actually involves sending data (username and password) to the server.
- it requires filling in a form and sending the form data to the server.
- Hidden means that we don't see it on the page, but it is there.
- find all the inputs on the page and figure out what values need to go back, whether you're entering that value or not.
- login token,
  - it sends this value each time we open the page.
  - every time we refresh the page, we get a different token value
  - a kind of security, make sure that the page that you're logging in from is a page that they gave you, not a page that you created yourself.



- deal with JSON data and XML data
- send HTTP requests and deal with the response that we get back
- BeaurifulSoup
- If there is JavaScript on the page, Selenium

- `https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Main+Page`
  - `&returntoquery=gettingStartedReturn%3Dtrue`
- `https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&gettingStartedReturn=true`
